Assignment 0.2 - Programming Environment II

Git is a free and open-source distributed version control system.  
Version control systems are used to store coding projects in what is called a repository.  
These repositories are usually stored in some remote location and accessible by a team of developers.  
To fully grasp the concept of version control systems and why they are important consider the following two use cases.

Use case 1:
You work on a team of five web developers and are responsible for maintaining a shopping cart website like Amazon.  
Throughout the week you are given development tasks.  These tasks range from changing images, adding new features to 
the website, and resolving errors.  Your team has been working on this application for five years and has a system 
in place to manage code changes.  Each time an HTML file is updated or a resource is added, the changes are emailed 
to the entire team through their Office 365 account.

Things to consider:
 - Are there any risks associated with sharing these resources through email?
 - What happens if one of the developers forgets to update their project with the new files?
 - What happens if someone forgets to check email?  
 - What happens if the new changes introduce errors/bugs and the codebase must be reverted to a previous version? 

Use case 2:
Same scenario as use case one, but instead of emailing the changes through your Office 365 account, you push those 
changes to a centralized location (think of Office 365 OneDrive or GoogleDrive).  In this scenario, everyone has a copy of 
the codebase on their computer, but everyone's changes are shipped and merged into the codebase being stored in a centralized 
location.  

Things to consider: 
 - Is this safer than emailing the files?
 - Can this improve versioning?
 - Would changes be easier to handle?
 - Does this improve work productivity?

Hopefully, you can see the advantages of use case two.  This is essentially what version control systems provide developers.  
A centralized location where they can manage coding projects in a group setting.  Git is one of many tools that facilitates this process. 
For this course and the remaining programming courses in this cohort we will use Git and GitHub (your GitHub account and repositories will 
be created in future assignments) to store and manage homework assignments and group projects.  Git can be intimating at first, but 
it does get easier with practice and determination. 

Required Actions:
 - Visit the downloads page and install Git based on your computer's operating system.
 - If you are feeling adventurous (what new programming student is not, am I right?), read the Getting Started – About Version Control through 
 First-Time Git Setup.  Yes, I know it is a lot of reading.  But, hey, isn’t that why we are in college?  To learn and read? 